---
layout: post
title: On Faith
date: 2017-11-01 19:43:26 -0700
categories:
 - draft
---


*Disclaimer*: This is neither a sermon nor a recommendation. Everyone's journey is their own.

In recent weeks I've been going through what some might call a minor "faith crisis," but it depends on how you look at it.

I grew up in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (i.e. I'm a Mormon). My parents are also lifelong members and raised all five of their children in the faith. That, plus living in a very Mormon area (albeit outside of Utah), and not being a particularly rebellious child led to me growing up as a normal Mormon kid.

I went to church on Sunday, because that's what we did. I didn't complain about this, because what else was I going to do? I was an Eagle Scout. I took Seminary classes (religious education during the school week). I graduated and went to college at Brigham Young University in Provo. Splendid.

To me, my beliefs always felt just like any other thing I knew, like math or geography. I never felt like spiritual things were any different than secular ones. Not like how religion and faith tends to be portrayed on TV.

However, this also meant that there wasn't any particularly strong motivation attached to religion vs. anything else. The reason I didn't drink alcohol or smoke was as much or more because of the health effects than anything religious. I went to church because it was where I could try to make friends.

And because praying or reading scriptures felt pretty much equivalent to something mundane like watching a movie, it didn't much matter to me whether or not I did it. So I often didn't.

Now, there were times when I was all about that faith. Like acting in the Nauvoo Pageant the summer after high school. Or at EFY during previous summers. But on average I was at a low simmer at best.

Around age 13 or so I had my first known period of "wait, do I actually believe all this?" The way I tell the story, my family visited Salt Lake City and watched the church produced film "The Testaments." And during the scene portraying Christ's Atonement I got the good tingly feelings I associate with the Holy Ghost. This and several other similar experiences have formed the foundation of my spiritual testimony, so that even in my darker years I never doubted what I had felt.

I had a similar period of determination shortly after admitting I liked boys "in that way". I had to decide whether I wanted to support and continue to believe in a religion that I expected would never change its policies or doctrine. During that time I felt a persistent sense of *gravitas*, as if heaven itself was watching me. And I chose to stick with the Church because I still had that foundational belief in its truth.

What I'm going through now is trickier.

At this point in my life, I'm trying to redetermine my sense of identity and self worth. I'm trying to confront long-held fears and denial. And in the process of taking a second look at who I am, I'm forced to take another look at what I believe. But this time I'm not connected to all the same strings that I was in the past. This time I'm also confronting all the ugly dissonance between what I deeply believe and what I hear from church members, leaders, and even scripture.





---



So, it's been a few weeks since I wrote that, and I've settled on a kind of compromise, for now.

The only thing in all of this mess that I can't question or discard is this: I believe there is more to me than my body.

 



