---
layout: post
title: November 8, 2016
date: 2016-11-09 09:03:20 -0700
redirect_from: /post/november-8-2016
tags:
 - news
---

These posts tend to make me feel better. Let's see if it works this time.

Yesterday was the final day of the United States 2016 election, where Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Presidency were all up for grabs. For months people on every side have been trumpeting their zealotry or disgust over one candidate or another. And while I did sometimes speak up to voice a portion of my own feelings, I largely kept quiet, out of weariness over the whole issue and fear that those who disagree with me would react poorly to my words.

I voted for Hillary Clinton for a few reasons.

1. I lived in a state that people considered "safely blue" (Washington), and there was no revolutionary movement here to change that. I could have voted third-party to make my own little statement, but I privately knew days before the ballot arrived that I would actually vote for Clinton.
2. I believe the President is more of a symbol than a political agent. The President's job is to enforce the laws of Congress and to represent the US to other countries. I do not want such a volatile and aggressive person as Trump representing me. I do not trust his rationality or judgment on important matters. I do not trust his ability to listen to opposing opinions and consider them seriously when making decisions that affect millions.
3. Honestly, I like her policies better than Trump's. Supposedly Trump's policies line up somewhat with typical Republican views (?), but at this point in my life, I was not swayed by any of his promises. I don't fear immigrants (even the illegal ones), I'm not isolationist, I don't like all the wars we're involved in, and I think the environment is more important than the economy right now. I don't line up perfectly with everything Clinton says, but everything Trump says that I like, Clinton also agrees with. And I **strongly** disagree with a lot of things Trump plans to do.
4. I don't accept that Clinton's scandals are worse than Trump's behavior. I take her scandals as proof she's a real person that makes mistakes and knows it. I take his behavior as a warning that he can't admit any mistake or failure. If he can't behave in the way society needs and expects adults to behave, I'll have to treat him like a spoiled child.

I know many people voted for Trump because they are conservative and played within party lines. I know many people voted because they would rather go with an unknown disruptor than a known entity they feel is dangerous. I know many people voted because they were fed up with the status quo and grasped at the one option actually promising to change things.

But I also know many people voted for Trump because they agree with his most vitriolic and offensive statements, and that's what makes me so sad. It's sad that so many people are afraid. That so many people think so poorly of those who are different.

Monday night I told people that I wouldn't be looking at Facebook or Twitter over the next day or two, since I wanted to avoid hearing my friends arguing about the election. I wanted to have some time to process the outcome before returning to the morass of social media. But once the outcome seemed inevitable, I did open up some of the apps. I felt I needed to see the reactions; I needed to participate, or at least witness, the change.

People were calling for healing and respectful acceptance. They were saddened and shocked by the news, but not angry or calling for revolution.

I hope those who voted for Trump that read this can understand our fear and pain right now.

I've never seen the country so divided as it has been this year. And now that it's "over," I extend my hand to everyone. Let us come together once more. Let us respect and care for everyone. Don't let these divisions remain any longer. Congratulate those who won, and empathize with those who lost. Our nation has survived division before, it can do so again.
